the half-ling book one in the fall of igneeria series kaylee soderburg copyright 2013 kaylee soderburg all rights reserved .
isbn : 1492913731 isbn-13 : 978-1492913733 for my family , who encouraged me to never stop fighting for my dreams chapter 1 summer vacations supposed to be fun , right ?
i wish i had a better answer to that question .
starlings , new york is not the place youd expect much to happen .
its a small quiet town , the kind where everyone knows your name .
its a place where your parents wouldnt even care if you stayed out late biking with your friends .
only because everyone felt so safe , so comfy .
they dont know the half of it .
but i do .
i know it all and starlings is not the place where you want to be after dark .
the only reason why no one knows this is because jason , emily , seth and i have kept it that way .
i walked along the empty road alone , occasionally waving to passing kids on bikes .
my backpack was slung over my shoulder , filled with my writing books and sketchpads .
i kept my eyes on the shadowed road , watching my every step .
usually i was more aware of my surroundings , but today i was tired and didnt care if i rammed into a tree .
i kicked a rock into the grass .
the sun was starting to set , painting the sky in brilliant oranges and reds .
it slipped down the sky , allowing the first stars to peek out from behind the bright curtain .
the remaining light cast shadows over everything , creating the illusion that there was double of everything .
the world prepared to go into its hours of unreal silence that made it seem magical , and it really was .
my phone buzzed and i awoke from my trance .
i thumbed the keypad and opened the message seth had sent me .
it read : whatcha doing ?
i flipped open the pad and wrote : walking home .
i shoved it back in my pocket and continued walking .
the sun was almost gone and shadows were starting to appear behind everything .
i looked at my own shadow , that danced behind me .
the phone buzzed again as seth sent me a reply .
see anything ?
do you want me to meet you ?
i glanced at the nearby woods .
my ears heard nothing and i didnt see any movement but my hands shook slightly as i typed , nothing , im fine .
i didnt open his reply because i knew what it would say .
i already knew that it was strangely quiet .
maybe i could stay home and sleep one night .
or maybe i could finish a painting tonight and watch mom do origami .
i turned the corner , and my house came into view .
i started to climb the hill when i froze .
out of my left eye i saw the outline of a creature .
it was heading through the woods in the direction of my house .
i swore under my breath and took off for the woods .
my feet crunched on the fallen branches and leaves .
i could see the creature ahead of me .
i didnt have much time .
i placed my bag on the ground and crossed my legs .
i started to grab my phone but stopped .
i didnt need to tell the others , it was just one .
and if i was lucky , it would be an easy take down .
i closed my eyes and began my mental countdown .
the wind picked up around me , as if a wind current had just appeared out of nowhere .
5 my body started to feel hot , like i was being hugged by the sun .
i hated this part .
4 power surged through me as i was freed from my human self .
shivers ran down my spine .
3 i felt cold , like being dipped in ice water .
the breeze picked up even harder .
2 i was hollow and could probably see my own body if i opened my eyes .
but i could never get the courage to do that .
1 the wind died .
my body felt normal except it was different .
i opened my eyes and looked over to where i just had been or still was .
my human body slightly glowed as it sat in meditation under the tree .
it didnt move .
i could see the monster clearly now that i had stepped into its world .
it was hunched over , occasionally touching the ground with one of its curled front paws .
dark saliva dripped out of its mouth .
the beady black eyes made it no less scary .
i knew exactly what it is .
a thrasher !
a shiver ran down my spine .
thrashers were probably one of the most feral and nasty monsters ive ever encountered .
they sometimes travel alone or hunt in packs .
theyre awful in packs , extremely hard to take out without their knowledge of your presence .
i placed an arrow in my bow , and aimed for the head .
i couldnt let the creature reach my house .
i pulled back the string , and then stopped .
i couldnt take out one of these like , this unless i set it on fire .
but emily wasnt here .
i could take it out with a few arrows but its best to kill thrashers before they realize youre there .
instead i lowered my bow and slowly crept up to it , until i could see the hideous claws on its hands and the hatred in its eyes .
thrashers hate everything and sometimes i wonder how they tolerate each other .
i aimed for the head again and released the arrow .
it whizzed silently into the thrasher and it howled in pain as the arrow dug into its fur .
it whirled around , facing me .
a low growl sounded in its throat and it charged .
i ducked as it slashed my side and i winced .
my shirt slowly turned blue from the trickling wound .
yes , blue , my blood is blue .
it turned back around and threw its self at me .
this time i was prepared .
i pulled out my hunting knife out just as he landed on me .
he yelped and went limp .
i pushed him off and grabbed my fallen bow , the familiar feeling of the wood boosting my confidence .
i turned back around and started back where i left off , but then a body slammed into me .
i just had enough time to see the thrasher , before the fur and dirt filled my vision .
i spit out the clump of wiry hair that had somehow found its way into my gasping mouth .
i felt a searing pain as the thrasher raked my left leg .
i closed my eyes against the pain , trying to focus myself against the dull throb in my shin .
then the thrasher went limp against me .
it was hauled off of my body and i found myself looking up into the face of a very unhappy dark blue haired boy .
his sword was gripped tightly in his clenched fingers and a look of amusement , or many it was anger , shone on his face .
i swallowed and collected my weapons from the ground , not daring to look at my leg .
hi seth , this is unexpected .
seth glared at me and pulled me up .
he was definitely angry at me .
i tried to place weight on my leg but winced as pain shot up it .
he kicked the dead thrasher one more time before sheathing his sword .
you know better jazell then to take on a monster by yourself .
you never know what kind it is until you have already changed , he scolded me and i could feel a lecture coming .
i looked down at leg .
claw marks ran up my shin and my blue blood was soaking my pants .
i had to seth ; it was heading for my house .
that made me panic a bit .
i dont care jazell ; if i hadnt been here i would have found you shredded to small pieces .
all you had to do was send me a quick text and i would have showed up to help .
but you didnt .
i sighed in annoyance , not in the mood for this right now .
seth was like this sometimes , strict and serious , but he was normally a jokester .
hes strict on the fact that we attack in groups , mostly for the reason that he didnt want anything to happen to our group .
i started to slowly limp back to my body but seth just disappeared from my side .
he has this annoying skill to be able to just return to his body without having to be near it , which wasnt fair when he wasnt the one injured .
i , however , had to stiffly make my way to my dormant human body .
once i was near it , i closed my eyes and the wind picked back up .
my body felt hot and cold simultaneously as i returned .
i reopened my eyes and stood up , stretched , and grabbed my bag .
my back sent a chorus of cracks cascading upwards as i straightened myself .
i raised the side of my shirt to find the thin , red scratch marks .
any injuries i get in my hunter form i have when i become human again , just not as severe .
i quickly ran my fingers over the darker , thicker marks on my shin , the skin sore and purple .
i quickly checked myself for any other injures i might have acquired from my tangle with the thrasher , but all i found was a bunch of bruises .
seth seemed to have disappeared , so i trudged down the road to my house .
its cozy familiar blue paint and white shutters helped to relax me as i pushed open the door .
my house wasnt very big and fancy ; it was actually pretty plain but thats why i loved it .
it had two floors , with a fair sized kitchen and a mini living room .
my room was just up the stairs , and it beckoned to me even though i was more interested in dinner .
my mom was cooking in the kitchen and my dad was sitting at the kitchen table going through his usual paper work .
he looked up as i entered , pushing his glasses back up his face .
hi sweetheart , finally home ?
he asked giving me a warm smile .
i kissed his cheek and my moms before heading toward the stairs .
yup .
dinners ready in a few minutes , jazell !
my mom called as i climbed the stairs , eager to collapse on my bed for a few minutes .
got it !
i called back .
my room was painted a light green , with a bed shoved in the corner and a bookshelf overflowing with books .
i had a small desk to the left of my bed that was piled up high with homework and random drawings .
i threw my bag on my bed and took off my shoes .
then i headed back down stairs to help set the table .
my mom handed me some dishes and utensils .
i set a plate down in front of my dad .
he frowned and pointed to my scratched shin .
what happened ?
he asked , and studied my leg .
i tripped on a crack and scraped my leg .
i said flatly , the lie rolling off my tongue easily .
i placed my last dish down and sat in my chair .
dad chuckled .
youre so clumsy .
i wouldnt be surprised if you tripped on your own feet .
yup , thats me , clumsy .
i pulled my leg close to my body .
my parents had believed for a long time that i was a klutz .
that was the only way to explain the million of cuts and bruises i gained from fighting creatures .
the truth is that i have really great balance , which i had gained from so much fighting .
i was a little klutzy when i was small , so it was easy for my parents to believe i still was .
mom placed the food on the table .
dinner !
after dinner i went straight up stairs to go to sleep .
and hopefully my phone wouldnt stop me like it did most nights .
monsters loved to come out at night and cause trouble .
they never seem to rest , much to my annoyance .
i sighed and rolled over , burying my face in my pillow .
i managed to think about something other than creatures that go bump in the night as i drifted off to sleep .
in the morning i changed and ran down stairs and left a note saying i was going out to eat with jason , emily and seth .
it took me minutes to speed down to the small breakfast restaurant in town .
i chained up my bike and walked over to the plastic blue table my friends had occupied .
i slid in next to emily , who was talking about some book she had read recently .
jason , who sat next to her , was pretending to be fascinated by her rant .
emily stopped in mid-sentence when she noticed me sitting beside her .
jazell , youre here !
she exclaimed .
is it true , did you take on a monster by yourself yesterday ?
i sighed , shooting a look at seth .
yes it is .
thanks tattle-tale seth .
well you did and i thought the group had a right to know that .
seth said sharply .
how could you jazell ?
you could have gotten seriously hurt .
plus i bet all of us want a shot at them too .
she huffed and shook her head .
the light brown curls that framed her pretty face bounced around playfully .
im fine emily , seriously .
jason was silent .
he never talked much like emily , who was easily the most talkative , friendly person i knew .
jason was more of the silent , watching type , who said little but noticed much .
i traced in a puddle on the table , avoiding everyones eye contact as they stared at me .
emily patted my arm .
its okay .
we arent mad at you or anything .
right seth ?
she glared at him .
he shrugged .
i guess .
emily perked up .
you see , everyone makes mistakes .
seth grunted to himself .
emily rolled her eyes .
hey seth , its not like you havent done something stupid .
we all remember the swamp troll .
seth frowned and jason snickered .
seth punched his arm .
hey dont make me nag you about the time you almost took off my head with your throwing knifes .
jason stopped dead and narrowed his eyes .
it was an accident .
i didnt know youd run that way .
alright , we understand that weve all done stupid , foolish things .
so lets just add this accident to my list , okay ?
i said quickly before the two started something .
they nodded but shot each other smirks .
i sighed , wondering why those two buffoons had been granted this power along , with emily and me .
its not like they werent foolish enough already .
the day when it all changed was still a mystery to us .
a lot of things happened that didnt quite make sense .
the four of us were already best friends .
we were walking through the woods , rambling on about how halloween was almost here and that ms. stecher was still giving us too much homework .
then all of a sudden an invisible object slammed into me .
i shrieked and couldnt move .
it had me pinned to the ground .
seth ran forward and grabbed a branch to protect me .
it should have gone right through the air but it collided into something and snapped in half .
seth dropped it in amazement .
emily ran over to me but was plowed to the ground .
she screamed , spitting out dirt , twigs and leaves .
seth stood watching , terrified .
he didnt have a clue as what to do to fight these invisible creatures .
none of us did , at that time , because we didnt know what was going on .
the world was still a normal place to us at the time .
something grabbed seths legs and pulled him against a tree .
he kicked and punched but couldnt find the right place to hit his attacker .
hold on !
jason yelled .
i opened my mouth to say that we already were when he vanished .
dragged away was my guess .
my legs shot with pain .
i heard emily yell the first curse words ive heard her say in a while .
i spotted her red arm just before my body felt like fire .
i closed my eyes and blacked out .
i didnt really black out but thats what i thought at the time .
i opened my eyes to find i was sitting on the ground next to my sleeping body .
i saw emily sitting there , saying nothing for once .
something fell off my back and i picked it up .
it was a wooden bow , and when i reached behind my back i felt a quiver full of feathered arrows strapped there .
i ran a finger over the smooth , dark wood and turned to see seth crashing out of the woods .
i smirked at him and pointed at his head .
you have dark blue hair .
i giggled , not knowing why i was giggling after what had just happened to us a few minutes ago .
he frowned and pulled a piece or two out of his head .
his eyes widened , and i laughed at the shock on his face .
if we were dead , which was my best guess , why not poke fun at him ?
seth smiled at me .
well , yes but you have green hair .
its bright green , like neon green .
i shoved my hair in front of my face .
it was bright green all right .
i stood up and examined myself .
i was wearing light brown hunting boots and tight black pants made out of some sort of light cloth .
a thick woven jacket was shielding me from the october cold .
when i looked back at seth , i realized he had also made an outfit change .
he was wearing black leather boots and dark blue pants .
his top was a short , brown cloak with a hood and leather belt .
a beautiful steel sword with an ornamental hilt was swinging at his side from a woven sheath .
oh well , i guess i have green hair .
its not that bad .
i like green .
i rambled as i examined the short hunting knife that was resting in a small sheath on my hip .
i ran a finger over the blade before putting it back .
how seth and i had acquired such dangerous weapons was anyones guess .
i certainly had no clue .
i heard footsteps and turned to see emily running over .
she was wearing a close fitting , long robe .
it was a stunning deep blue with a trim of gold embroidery .
she had no weapons dangling from her body were visible from where i was standing .
i have pink hair !
isnt it cool ?
she spun around so we could take in all of its bubblegum pink color .
she looked at the bow slung over my shoulder and seths gleaming sword .
hey , i dont have anything cool and deadly .
why do you both get something like that and i didnt ?
its not like you can trust jazell with something sharp or dangerous .
hey !
we cant trust you either .
i pointed out , crossing my arms .
arming you is as scary as giving a kindergartener a knife .
she gasped .
yeah , well , im ignoring you now .
she huffed and turned around .
there you are !
jason exclaimed as he crashed out of the trees , panting .
his wavy hair was a deep red that framed his eyes but he didnt seem to have noticed its color change or to care .
he was wearing an all black layered tunic and pants with boots that looked as light as mine .
if i didnt know it was jason , i would have taken a huge step backwards at his assassin-like appearance .
whats going on ?
he demanded , eyes flickering from each of us as he took in all of our strange appearances .
dont know jason , were as stumped as you .
i said .
he bit his lip and then smirked .
oh , i almost forgot .
look at this .
he gestured at his belt , grinning mischievously .
hanging there were a multitude of thin , dangerous looking knives .
he pulled up his sleeve so i could see another one strapped there .
cool , huh ?
emily had turned to see jason appear .
she spotted his knives and groaned , stomping her foot .
aw come on !
jason whispered behind his hand to seth and i. whats up with her ?
seth shrugged .
i dont know .
girl issues ?
i heard that !
emily said angrily .
thats when suddenly a hideous creature appeared in front of us .
it was hunched over , with thick furry skin and wicked claws that shot out of its curled paws .
we would soon know them as thrashers , beasts we would get used to seeing .
i dont know who screeched louder in fear , but im pretty sure it might have been me .
seth pulled his sword out but his hand shook like mad .
i clumsily pulled an arrow out of the quiver on my back and struggled to attach it to my bow .
how the heck did those people in movies make this look so easy ?
i exchanged a look with seth , but he looked as clueless as i did .
none of this felt real .
i swear , the creature laughed at us .
or maybe my fear was making me see and hear things .
jason moved silently to stand beside us , one of his throwing knives in his hand .
what do we do ?
were dead so it cant hurt us right ?
i asked .
i dont feel dead .
jason whispered .
i didnt either .
in fact , i realized that my whole body was aching from the strange attack i had experienced .
and if i was dead , i wouldnt need to breathe so heavily .
my heart was racing so fast that it might explode right out of my chest .
jason threw the knife he had been holding and it stuck into a tree .
he grinned at me and i guess it hit exactly where he wanted .
on the count of three , we attack with everything weve got .
okay ?
seth looked at jason and i .
we nodded at him .
one , two three !
when seth hit three , he charged with his sword .
i pulled back and released my arrow .
it hit the thrashers front paw .
before i could think , i had notched another one on the bow and drew back the string .
it was like i had been an archer my whole life .
jason threw knife after knife , hitting its mark every time .
when the creature went down , seth stood and took a breath .
then another tackled him to the ground .
i didnt know what to do and jason didnt either .
emily ran forward and pointed to seth who was clawing toward his weapon .
do something !
she screamed .
before i could reply , fire shot from her finger .
the thrasher yelped and jumped off seth and ran toward emily .
she smiled wickedly and held both hands out , pelting the creature with fire .
i pulled seth up in time to see the thrasher buried entangled by roots shooting from the dirt .
jason threw a knife in the pile to make sure it was really dead .
you okay ?
i asked seth , and congratulated emily on her new found talent .
im fine .
he said and limped over .
i gasped and pointed to his leg .
seth , youre bleeding blue !
he just blinked at him , glancing down at his leg .
he didnt answer as he tugged at me to start walking back towards where we had last seen ourselves .
we could still see our bodies sleeping peacefully , but this time i noticed that we were all faintly glowing blue .
i could see the rise and fall of my chest as i breathed .
so i really was alive , which made this situation even creepier and stranger .
i had two bodies !
how was this even possible ?
what do we do ?
seth , do you any ideas ?
she frowned when he didnt answer .
seth ?
emily spun in a circle but seth was nowhere to be found .
seth walked out from behind a tree .
but he was normal seth .
he had his dirty blonde hair back and was wearing his dirty jeans and shirt from school .
no dark red hair , no glimmering sword , no bleeding wound .
his warrior self was nowhere to be seen .
seth howd you do that ?
i asked .
he whirled around .
whos there ?
me , you idiot !
i snorted .
he stared at the place where i was standing , but his eyes werent focused on me .
jazell ?
obviously , are you blind ?
i can hear you but cant see you .
arent you back ?
where are you ?
no .
i said frustrated , now tell us how you got back .
he closed his eyes and sat down .
i imagined myself in my body , and what is was like to be back .
and then i was back to normal .
wait .
the wind picked up around him and then suddenly he was back , blue hair and all , standing beside his sitting , normal body .
wow how did you do that ?
emily gasped .
i imagined what it was like to fight that creature .
and then my body took over .
he explained , but i dont think he even understood .
then he was gone again and the real seth stood up .
try it .
i closed my eyes and thought of school and all of ms. stechers homework that i needed to do .
then my body was doing the rest .
i felt hot and cold , as the winds seemed to pick up .
i shivered and opened my eyes .
i was lying on the ground .
my hair brown hair flopped in my face as i sat up , seeing emily dash over to me .
seconds later jason walked through the trees , rubbing his face .
seth grinned at all of us ; we were back .
thats how it all started .
i dont know how we got the gift to become these different people , but we did .
thats the mystery and hopefully well solve it one day .
we were chosen for some unknown reason , but that reason doesnt matter .
all that matters is that we protect this town .
jasons eyes flashed .
i stood up and leaned over to him .
what jason ?
monsters , a whole bunch of them .
i saw the movement near the pond .
he pointed to the pond that was just nestled in the woods .
and with that , we were off .
running towards the pond to do what we do best , destroy monsters .
only this time it was different .
chapter 2 we ran and ducked behind a large boulder , huddling together .
we all sat down , closed our eyes , and concentrated .
i felt a shiver run through my body as i left it and entered my hunter form .
i followed emily , jason , and seth as we crept silently over to the monsters , splitting up to surround them .
i counted two thrashers , which surprised me .
i swear we saw more before .
the thrasher turned before we could execute a surprise attack .
seth marched over , swinging his sword .
jason threw knives calmly at the other monster while emily casted fire by his side .
i , however , was jumped on by something entirely new .
they were small and stubby , the size of dwarfs or gnomes .
their skin was shriveled and grey , and hung off their bodies like cold clothing .
their eyes were a bright yellow that matching their teeth and their fingers looked like gnarly old trees .
and the smell ; it was awful .
they grabbed my feet , back and tugged at my hair .
why does everything always happen to me ?
i complained .
no one heard me .
the ugly creatures continued tugging at me like annoying two year old , which made me get really annoyed .
get off me ugly looking toad dwarfs .
hey , thats what ill call you , toad dwarfs .
i smiled at my quick thinking .
i could be clever sometimes .
take that seth .
silly girl , were already called toad dwarfs .
the one on my leg croaked .
aw darn , never mind then .
so much for being clever .
the one on my back grabbed my hair .
he yanked it back .
ow !
it may be green but i still value it !
i grumbled , trying to pull my head free .
i also had no desire to be bald at 16 .
hes rising , hes rising !
the dwarf said excitedly .
his voice cracked at the last word .
who the heck is rising and why does it require pulling my hair out !
i snapped .
hes rising , hes rising !
he repeated , full of crazed excitement .
i swear i could feel him shaking from exhilaration .
whatever , youre now an official maniac .
i pulled out my hunting knife .
maniacs get destroyed by me .
no maniacs are allowed to exist except for me and emily .
he jumped off as i stabbed the one on my arm .
i grabbed my bow and shot him with an arrow before he his little legs could he him very far .
he fell to the ground , the arrow sticking straight up at the sky .
now the forest was maniac free .
i killed the others and looked up to find the thrashers dead too , probably courtesy of seth .
a few dwarfs were also lying dead in front of emily .
i walked back to my body and closed my eyes .
when i reopened them , i stood , stretching my legs .
the four of us headed back to the restaurant together , adrenaline still pumping through my veins .
i told emily and the boys about the freaky dwarves .
crazy right ?
i asked , running a hand through my hair .
no one said anything and emily produced a pencil out of her bag .
i need a piece of paper , jazell .
i ripped one out of my notebook and handed it to her .
we sat at the table and emily titled the page : warnings .
i didnt know why .
okay , jazell , what exactly did he say ?
emily asked , pencil poised in the air ready to write .
he said , hes rising , hes rising .
i have no idea who he meant or if what he said means anything .
emily scribbled down , toad dwarf said , hes rising , hes rising .
whos coming and is he important ?
i stared at the paper , the question swirling in my mind .
who did he mean ?
now what did the dwarf tell you , seth ?
she asked .
he said , you wont stop him , little warrior .
he frowned at the last part .
emily added , toad dwarf told seth , you wont stop him , little warrior .
does this mean hes powerful ?
did you have to add the little warrior part ?
it makes me sound weak .
seth complained .
i did because we need all the facts .
its obvious the dwarf was trying to make you sound weak anyway .
now what did he tell you , jason ?
he said , he will destroy all half-lings .
whats that supposed to mean , anyway ?
jason said .
she added the last bullet ; toad dwarf said to jason , he will destroy all half-ling .
what does half-ling mean ?
d
